# Introduction

this project contains all the codes and data used for the paper: "Intelligence Against Complexity: Machine Learning for Nonuniform Temperature-field Measurements Through Laser Absorption", a paper talks about the nonuniformity effect on measuring average temperature from laser absorption spectroscopy.

## Abstract of the paper

The effect of spatial nonuniformity of the temperature distribution was examined on the capability of machine-learning algorithms to provide accurate temperature prediction based on Laser Absorption Spectroscopy.  First, sixteen machine learning models were trained as surrogate models of conventional physical methods to measure temperature from uniform temperature distributions (uniform-profile spectra). The best three of them, were shown to work excellently on uniform profiles but their performance degraded tremendously on nonuniform-profile spectra. This indicated that directly using uniform-profile-targeted methods to nonuniform profiles was improper. However, after retraining models on nonuniform-profile data, the models of GPR and VGG13, which utilized all features of the spectra, not only showed good accuracy and sensitivity to spectral twins, but also showed excellent generalization performance on spectra of increased nonuniformity, which demonstrated that the negative effects of nonuniformity on temperature measurement could be overcome. In contrast, BRF, which utilized partial features, did not have good generalization performance, which implied the nonuniformity level had impact on regional features of spectra. By reducing the data dimensionality through T-SNE and LDA, the visualizations of the data in two-dimensional feature spaces demonstrated that two datasets of substantially different levels of non-uniformity shared very closely similar distributions in terms of both spectral appearance and spectrum-temperature mapping. Notably, datasets from uniform and nonuniform temperature distributions clustered in two different areas of the 2D spaces of the t-SNE and LDA features with very few samples overlapping.

## Structure of the project

the project contains four folders: data generalization, ML_uniform, ML_nonuniform, and data_preprocess_postprocess  and each of them can be regarded as a individual project, in each code, necessary comments are given to illustrate the important steps and usages of the whole code; readme.txt is given to leave some hints on the content of the data in the folder.

### Data generalization

**Data generalization** utilize HAPI and Hitemp database to generate spectra from uniform, 5-segment- and 10-segment- nonuniform profiles, the final data are stored in **data_preprocess_postprocess** *input* folder, one can find readme there to guide you the meaninng of data.

### ML_uniform

**ML_uniform**  includes all files needed to train machine learning and network models on **uniform profile spectra**, and the training process often is proceeded with a test process in the same file, the metric is stored in *output* folder

Besides, the test performance on 5-segment profiles were also done and stored in *out_save* folder

### ML_nonuniform

**ML_nonuniform** includes all files needed to train machine learning and network models on **five-segment profile spectra**,  and the training process often is proceeded with a test process in the same file, the metric is stored in *output* folder. Besides, the test performance on uniform and 10-segment profiles were also done and stored in the save folders.

the models trained on different similarity levels are stored in *model space* folder.

### data_preprocess_postprocess

As the name suggests, this folder contains all pre- and post-process of acquired data.

the functions include generate spectral twins with different similarity levels; split spectra twin dataset into training and test sets; test uniform models on spectral twins; test nonunifrom models on spectra twins test set.

Besides, all figures plotted can be generated by figure_generation.py, and data_cluster_visualization provides the visualization of features by t-sne and LDA.
